In this chapter, we're going to be looking
at Python modules.
And, any program that you write in Python
can become a module.
You just have to be sure to add it into
another program correctly.
We're gonna start off first though by
looking at just the general use of
modules and one or two of the built in
modules that are part of Python.
You'll notice that I'm in the Python 3.0/
Lib directory.
And these are where the built in modules
reside.
And if we do Dir*PY/W we can get a look at
all
the Python modules that are built in or
part of the language.
And there's quite a few.
And these are just standard python files.
So, if we wanna open one for example,
we've used the OS module a time or two.
We can open it up.
I'll also call these libraries sometimes.
And you'll see that it's just python code.
I'm not gonna spend time trying to explain
it all.
But it's just python code.
That in this case is used to work with
specific operating system commands.
And you can open any of these.
Let's look at another one for example.
Let's find one that looks like it might be
easy to understand.
Actually none of them are very easy to
understand.
Let's just do P, print.
Notepad.
P Print.
This is for Pretty Printing.
And here you see the use of the module,
handle Pretty
Printing operations onto a stream using a
configured set of formating parameters.
And then, again, just a set of Python
statements.
Looks like some classes and functions.
To allow you to pretty print using Python.
So, very briefly lets look at how we use
the built-in modules.
We have done this before.
So, we are gonna call this program
builtin.py.
And the way
we use the built in module is we import it
into our.
Program and we'll do that for our user
defined modules
that we are gonna start learning about in
the next lesson.
Then, once we have done that, then we have
the functionality of that module available
to our program.
So for example, one of the things we did
earlier
in the course was used p.open from the OS
module.
To store all of the output from the
directory command.
In this is it's *.py, directory, into a,
object that
we can then, iterate through using a four
loop, like so.
So
then, when we run this code.
We get a listing of all the falls that end
in PY in the current
sub-directory because I didn't enter any
other pass,
so it's working with the current working
directory.
Another example that we've looked at, was
the floating point, absolute value.
Function, that's part of the math library.
The math library is not accessible as a
P-Y program because it is
writing differently, so we can't inspect
it the same way we inspected O-S.
But, we can still access its functions.
We get the file list and then we get
the absolute value of negative 123.45
which is positive 123.45.
There's really not much more to say about
the use of
built-in modules that I want to talk about
in this lesson.
There are some options when you import a
library or a module into your program.
And, we're gonna look at those when we
look at how we how
we create our own modules, which is coming
up in the next lesson.
So, without further ado, let's move on to
the next lesson
where we'll begin looking at how to create
our own modules.